Waalre Future
Connections

improving liveability and mobility

Title:
Waalre Future Connections 
improving liveability and mobility

Authors:
ir. Marcel Musch
ir. Daniek Reijnders
Evi van de Logt Bsc.

Students involved:
Lars Kerssens
Anna van Rij
Jory Rijvers
Niels Verdonk

Client:
LUXadvies
Verschuren Subsidie Advies

Collaboration:
Eindhoven University of Technology
Municipality of Waalre

Copyright © Authors (2018)

Disclaimer:
While every effort has been made to ensure the correctness of information used in 
report, the authors do not accept any legal liability for the accuracy or inferences 
drawn from the material contained within. No part of this report may be reproduced 
or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including 
photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retrieval system, without 
prior permission from the authors.

Content

 
1  
2  
3  
4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
6.   
7 

 

Indicators for travel reasons

Introduction
The municipality of Waalre
Research approach 
Waalre Highlights
4.1   
4.2 
 
 
4.3 
 
 
4.4 
 
 
 
4.5 
Waalre key learnings & recommendations
Comments of respondents
References 

Focus group
Current travel behaviour 
4.1.1  Choice of transportation 
4.1.2  Transportation to activities
Travel reasons 
4.2.1 
4.2.2  Motives for travel modes
Public transport
4.3.1  Bus and train
4.3.2.  Experience of public transport
4.3.3  First & Last Mile
Future scenarios

 
p. 5
p. 7
p. 11
p. 13
p. 13
p. 16
p. 17
p. 18
p. 23
p. 23
p. 24
p. 26
p. 27
p. 29
p. 31
p. 37
p. 41
p. 45
p. 46

- 2 -

- 3 -

1. Introduction 

The way we move around is constantly 
changing. The Metropolitan Region 
of Eindhoven is developing a new 
innovative regional fast bus service 
connecting the municipalities of 
Eindhoven, Waalre, Valkenswaard 
and beyond. The development of 
this high-quality public transport 
service (HOV: Hoogwaardig Openbaar 
Vervoerslijn) is a reason to rethink 
in the way the mobility network 
and the new node (the bus stop) is 
embedded in its spatial, technological, 
functional and economical context.  
The Eindhovenseweg in Aalst, part of 
the municipality of Waalre, will have 
at least one bus stop. The fast bus 
service makes it necessary to redesign 
certain elements in the municipality of 
Waalre. Therefore, it is an opportunity 
to improve its spatial quality and its 
liveability. Moreover, it asks for new 
mobility solutions to connect the village 
of Waalre to and from the bus stop 
(‘the first & last mile’). The new service 
offers an opportunity to use or develop 
the new (ICT) technologies that could 
make the use of the new line more 
efficient, and offers an opportunity 
to stimulate the development of new 

- 5 -

programs around the mobility node to 
facilitate daily living patterns. Above all, 
it is an opportunity to improve the way 
the inhabitants of the municipality of 
Waalre can move around in the region 
in an efficient, pleasurable and healthy 
way. 

To achieve this ambitions the 
municipality of Waalre aspires to know 
more about the wishes and demands of 
its inhabitants, in order to maximize the 
use of this future HOV-connection. In 
this report the prospective users of the 
fast bus service are researched: what 
are their opinions and experiences 
with regard to the use and comfort of 
the upcoming transport? How can we 
make better future connections? The 
wishes and demands with respect to 
their current and future daily mobility 
patterns is explored, and scenario’s 
that include new spatial, programmatic 
and business models are presented to 
the prospective users and analyzed. 
Recommendations for better future 
mobility related to the HOV-connection 
in the municipality of Waalre are 
offered. 

- 4 -

Best

Eindhoven

Veldhoven

Aalst

Waalre

Valkenswaard

- 6 -

0 km 

1 km 

2 km 

3 km 

2. The municipality of Waalre

Waalre is a municipality in the 
province of North Brabant in the 
south of the Netherlands, part of 
the Metropolitan area Eindhoven. 
The municipality of located south of 
Eindhoven, north of Valkenswaard, 
borders with the Dommel river in the 
east, and highway A2 in the west. 
Waalre consists of the villages Aalst 
& Waalre that have merged in 1923. 
Before the merger Aalst and Waalre 
had two very distinguished characters, 
whereas Aalst mainly consisted of 
houses placed along the main road 
between Eindhoven and Valkenswaard 
(lintbebouwing) and Waalre was 
centered around a market place, 
connected by a clear road structure 

(Gemeente Waalre, 2017). In the 19th 
century, Aalst was split in two with 
the construction of the ‘Napoleontic 
‘steenweg’, a main road connecting 
Valkenswaard with Eindhoven. As 
the construction of this road led 
to substantial traffic increase with 
accompanied air- and noise pollution, 
the perimeter turned its back on the 
street over the course of time. Today, 
this road is known as N69 and is still 
considered a huge barrier between 
east and west of Aalst. Today, the 
municipality of Waalre presents itself 
as a green residential community using 
the slogan “Waalre Groenfontein” 
(Waalre Green Fountain).

Nuenen

Geldorp

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Inhabitants 
 
Density of inhabitants  
Households 
 
Numbers of houses 
 
 
WOZ-value (home-value) 
Age group 0-24 
Age group 25-44 
Age group 45-65 
Age group 65 + 
 
 
Cars 
 
Cars per household 
 
 
Distance to train station 
 
Source: CBSinuwbuurt (2017), CBS (2017)

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Eindhoven 
224 755 
2 564/km2 
114 614 
106 732 

€ 211.000 
29 % 
30 % 
25 % 
17 % 

 
 
 
 

98 370  
0,9 
 
3,2 km  

- 7 -

Waalre
17 023
760/km2
7 340
7 556

€ 305.000
27 % 
20 %
29 %
23 %

9 205
1,3
6,9 km

2
A

7

6

A

Waalre

Aalst

9
6
N

A67

A

2

CBS (2017) divides the municipality 
of Waalre into four neighbourhoods: 
Waalre, Aalst, Ekenrooi, and Voldijn. 
Compared to Eindhoven, the 
municipality of Waalre is not a dense 
urban area and the demographics are 
quite well divide. The municipality has a 
higher percentage of older age groups 
compared to Eindhoven. Moreover, 
the number of cars per household 
is higher in than in Eindhoven. The 
difference in home-value between 
Eindhoven and Waalre is also striking. 
In 2017, the municipality of Waalre was 
part of the top 5 municipalities with 
the highest percentage of households 
that are worth more than a million 
in the Netherlands Moreover, most 
millionaires in the province of Brabant 
live in the municipality of Waalre (Van 
Lanschot Bankiers, 2017). 

Future mobility in Waalre

The municipality of Waalre is part 
of various future mobility projects. 
One of these plans is ‘Duurzaam door 
Waalre’ (Sustainable through Waalre). 
In this project, the municipality of 
Waalre is planning to redesign the 
Eindhovenseweg and the Traverse. 
This plan includes a high-quality 
public transportation service (HOV, 
Hoogwaardig Openbaar Vervoerslijn), 
which exists of a fast bus connection 
between Valkenswaard through Aalst 
to the center of Eindhoven. According 
to Duurzaam door Waalre the redesign 
of the Eindhovenseweg will provide 

opportunities for shopping-center Den 
Hof, which is located next to this road. 
It is not only an opportunity to improve 
accessibility, but it also provides an 
opportunity to improve the livability 
of the two cores. In so called ‘think 
thanks’ (denktanks) board members 
develop an integral vision for these 
areas together with residents, retailers 
and neighbours of specific areas. 
The aim of these groups is to make 
the cores greener, safer and more 
sustainable. Examples of these think 
thanks are: Eindhovenseweg/Den Hof 
and Waalre Traverse (Duurzaam door 
Waalre, 2018). 

Duurzaam door Waalre is closely 
related to another project led by 
the province of Brabant called 
‘Grenscorridor N69’. This project 
includes a new provincial road from 
Belgium to the A67/A2, also known as 
‘Westparallel’. Their aim is to redirect 
predominantly freight traffic that is 
currently driving through Valkenswaard, 
Waalre and Aalst over the newly 
build bypass. (Goudappel Coffeng, 
2014). This new infrastructure will be 
ready in 2019. Grenscorridor N69 is a 
project that not solely consists of the 
construction of new infrastructure, 
but also aims to improve livability, 
accessibility and spatial quality in the 
region. Moreover, the project aspires 
to improve problems of livability and 
accessibility that last for more than 30 
years (Provincie Noord-Brabant, 2018) 

- 8 -

0 km 

0,5 km  

1 km 

1,5 km 

- 9 -

3. Research approach

In order to develop insights into 
the role of future mobility in the 
municipality of Waalre, the report 
analyses four important categories 
– travel behaviour, public transport, 
first- and last mile, and future scenarios 
through a mixed methods study. 
Through surveys and qualitative 
interviews in the municipality of 
Waalre we identified use, challenges 
and requirements for future mobility 
for residents. For geographical 
demarcation of the research, the 
CBS boundaries for neighborhoods is 
used. First, approximately 50 semi-
structured interviews and surveys 
were held with residents living in 
Waalre, by going several times to 
specified areas and approaching 
people in person to interview them. 
Second, the Municipality of Waalre 
sent letters to every househould in 

Waalre, in which a link was presented 
to an online survey. Third, an on-line 
campaign is held through Facebook, 
presenting the link to the online survey 
as an advertisement. In total, the 
results represent 1176 residents of the 
municipality of Waalre, representing 
7% of the total population of the 
municipality.

The data collection was carried out by 
a group of 4 graduate students over 
a period of seven weeks during the 
research seminar on urbanism and 
urban architecture from Eindhoven 
University of Technology. The surveys 
and interviews covered among other 
topics daily travel behaviour, travel 
time, commute, facility use, and 
travel motives. The interviews were 
transcribed and the results of the 
survey collated.

- 10 -

- 11 -

4.  Waalre Highlights

In this chapter highlights from the data 
are presented. First, basic information 
of the respondents is introduced 
to analyze to what extent these 
respondents represent the variety 
of residents within the municipality 
of Waalre. Second, current travel 
behaviour of the respondents is 

outlined. Third, travel reasons of this 
travel behaviour are elucidated. Fourth, 
the respondent’s experience of public 
transport is explored. In the last section 
results on presented future mobility 
scenarios are  analyzed. The 1176 
respondents represent 7 % of the total 
population of the municipality of Waalre. 

4.1 Focus group
Gender & age categories
Based on gender, there is a slight 
representation of male respondents 
compared to the statistics of Waalre 
according to CBS (2017). 

The graph representing the various 
age categories presents an unbalanced 
distribution. Where according to CBS 
(2017) the four age categories within the 
municipality of Waalre are more or less 
equally distributed, the age categories 
represented through the respondents 
show major differences.  Only one-third 
of the respondents are younger than 45 
years old, which should take up almost 
half of the inhabitants according the 
numbers of CBS (2017). The major part 
of the respondents (70 %) are older 
than 45 years old. This has to be taken 
in consideration when interpreting the 
results. 

Inner circle: CBS,2017
Outer circle: all respondents

Gender

Inner circle: CBS,2017
Outer circle: all respondents

Age categories

- 12 -

- 13 -

Employment status
The graph shows a relatively high 
percentage of retired respondents. 
However, the higher age group (65+ years 
old) is highly represented as well. More 
than half of the respondents’ is working 
(full-time and part-time). Slightly 10 % 
is pupil or student, and only 2 % of the 
respondents is job seeking.

Level of education 
The graph shows that almost 70 % of the 
respondents have a higher education level 
(HBO, WO, Doctoral). The other 30 % of 
the respondents can clustered under the 
umbrella of lower education (elementary 
school, LBO, MBO, HAVO, VWO). More 
than 40 % of the respondents is HBO 
trained. The second largest group is with a 
quarter of the respondents WO trained. 

Residence
Based on the distribution of respondents 
in Waalre and Aalst, the research shows a 
very accurate representation. About one 
third of the respondents is takes residence 
in the village of Aalst, and two third of the 
respondents takes residence in the village 
of Waalre. Based on postal codes the 
research determined where respondents 
live within the municipality. 

Employment status

Level of education

Employment place

Inner ring: CBS, 2017
Outer ring: all respondents

Residence

Income level

Employment place
The municipality of Waalre is the most 
common place to work, thus respondents 
work very close to their home address. 
An interesting observation is that more 
than a quarter of the respondents indicate 
they work in the city of Eindhoven. 
Eindhoven as Brainport region houses 
among others the High Tech Campus, 
Eindhoven University of Technology, and 
large companies like ASML. A quarter 
of the respondents indicate work is not 
applicable. This is in slight contradiction 
with the group of respondents indicating 
they are ‘retired’ (31 %). However, retired 
respondents could have answered the 
question based on where they used to 
work.

Income level
CPB (2017) estimates the average Dutch 
income level in 2017 is €37.000, which 
results in a monthly income of 2.855 gross 
and €2.152 net. Research on Metropole 
region Eindhoven (2017) shows that the 
spendable income in Waalre is about 20 % 
higher than the rest of south east North-
Brabant. The residents of Waalre, and the 
respondents of the research, are relatively 
prosperous.

- 14 -

- 15 -

4.2 Current travel behaviour

In this section, what people do over 
space and how people use transport 
is presented. Travel is the necessary 
link between activities, involving the 
movement from one activity location to 
the next. Multiple factors influence choice 
and frequency of trips, varying from 
geographical and meteorological to social 
and environmental reasons (Creemers 
et al., 2015; Schwanen, 2002; Nillson & 
Küller, 2000). On a national level, longer 
distances are mainly covered by traveling 
with car. Shorter distances are mainly 
covered by traveling by bicycle of by 
walking. In recent years, however, there 
is an ongoing trend in the Netherlands 
where people leave their car more often 
and use different means of transport 
when traveling long distances (CBS, 2017) 
. Also, there is a remarkable number of 
bicycles in the Netherlands in comparison 
to other countries: there are more 
bicycles (22 million) than inhabitants (17 
million). Six modes of transport can be 
distinguished in this chapter: 1. car, 2. 
bus, 3. train, 4. bicycle, 5. electric bicycle, 
6. other (moped, motor, taxi, über). The 
tram and metro are not considered at all 
in this research, as they are not applicable 
in the environment of the municipality of 
Waalre. 

Most used mode of transport 
(all respondents)

Most used mode of transport per gender 
(all respondents)

Inner ring: male
Outer ring: female

Inner ring: lower education
Outer ring: higher education
Most used mode of transport & level of education 
(all respondents)

Inner ring: Waalre
Outer ring: Aalst

Most used mode of transport  per 
residence (all respondents)

4.2.1 Choice of transportation

More than half of the respondents 
indicate they mostly use the car as a 
mode of transport. Second most used 
mode of transport is the bicycle, with 
almost 30 %. CBS (2016) state women 
travel 10 kilometers less per day than men 
and their choice of transport is adjusted 
accordingly: women are more likely to take 
the bicycle as they travel less. However, 
there is no major difference between 
gender in our study when comparing 
gender on this topic. Comparing the two 
villages (Aalst & Waalre), slightly more 
respondents in Aalst use the car as their 
most used mode of transport. As the 
connection with public transport in Aalst 
is considered better than in Waalre, one 
could expect a higher percentage of car-
users in Waalre. 

However, the percentage of respondents 
indicating they use public transport (bus, 
train) in Aalst is higher than Waalre. 
Clery and Rhead (2013) state education 
plays a crucial role in raising awareness 
of environmental challenges. The higher 
the education, the more environmental 
friendly choices like taking public transport 
or the bicycle instead of taking the car are 
made. However, when plotting the level 
of education against the most chosen 
mode of transport, this statement is not 
supported by this research. Respondents 
with higher education levels (HBO, WO, 
Doctoral) use the bicycle ánd the car 
more than the lower levels of education 
(elementary, LBO, MBO, HAVO, VWO).  
The bus and electric bicycle is used more 
among the respondents with lower levels 
of education.

- 16 -

- 17 -

4.2.2 Transportation to activities

Mobility is an essential element in 
people’s daily activity patterns. Viti et 
al. (2010) state that the scheduling and 
time dedicated to the different activities 
depend among others on the duration 
and the opportunity of travelling from 
one activity to the next. Therefore, faster 
mobility options allows people to schedule 
more activities within a day and to travel 
longer distances with comparable travel 
times. On average, one travels 32 km per 
day (CBS, 2016). Activities are categorized 
in traveling to (1) work, (2) friends, (3) 
shops, (4) culture, and (5) school. Modes 
of transportation are categorized in 1. 
car, 2. bus, 3. train, 4. bicycle, 5. electric 
bicycle, 6. other (moped, motor, taxi, 
über). 

Most used mode of transport per day
Travel is strongly correlated with 
activity timing and the chosen mode of 
transport (Viti, et al., 2010). Therefore, 
the disaggregate behavioral aspects over 
the week are of researched. The car 
and bicycle are the most used mode of 
transport for any day of the week, making 
up about 80 % of the total travels done. 
Where the car is slightly more used on 

weekends, the bicycle is slightly less 
used in on Saturdays and Sundays. This 
result suggest ways of travel differ from 
weekdays to weekends. 
 
1) Traveling to work 
About 10.000.000 commuter trips are 
made on weekdays (CBS, 2016). The 
graph shows the older people become, 
the less they make use of the public 
transport to travel to work and the more 
they take the car. Younger people (age 
category 15-24) tend to use the bicycle 
to travel to their work. However,  this 
result can partly be explained because 
residents in the Netherlands can obtain 
their driver’s license when they turn 18. 
This is also in line with the national trend 
that car ownership is decreasing among 
young people (CBS, 2017). Another 
interesting observation if the increase of 
the electric bicycle among the age group 
is 45-64 years old. Research done by 
Univé and Growth for Knowledge (2016) 
indicates 16 % of all Dutch residents 
owns an electric bicycle, which increases 
the frequency of cycling (utilitarian and 
recreational). Respondents who take the 
(electric) bicycle to their work indicate 
they use this mode of transport when 
they have to cycle up to 30 minutes. 

Respondents tend to walk to their work 
then they have to walk up to 15 minutes. 
Almost half of the respondents who use 
public transport to travel to their work 
travel more than 60 minutes. The car 
is mostly used when the travel time is 
between 15 to 30 minutes. 

Respondents who indicate they work 
in Eindhoven use the car slightly less 
than respondents indicating they work 
elsewhere. Moreover, the bicycle is used 
almost 10 % more to reach Eindhoven for 
work reasons compared to other work 
related destinations. The use of public 
transport is the same.

Travel to work Eindhoven - other

Inner ring: Eindhoven
Outer ring: Other

CBS (2016) indicates that highly educated 
men and women with jobs commute 
considerably more than workers with 
low- and medium level education. With 
a high educational level the commute 
distance travelled is about 30 km, where 
the lower level education workers travel 
19 km. This is mainly because there is 
a greater distance between the home 
address and the place of work for highly 
educated workers than for the less 
educated workers. The respondents 
of this research are mostly highly 
educated (HBO, WO, Doctoral), making 
up about 70 percent of all respondents. 
However literature states these high 
level education workers travel further 
than lower level education workers, the 
data shows that 45 % respondents work 
approximately within 10 kilometers of 
their home address and only The city of 
Eindhoven is within this reach. The high 
level of education can be explained with 
Eindhoven being the “smartest region 
of the world”, whereas a lot of highly 
educated people live nearby. 

Mode of transport per day (all repondents)

- 18 -

Average travel time (all respondents)

- 19 -

2) Traveling to friends 
The use of the regular bicycle decreases 
the older the respondents become. 
Again, the use of the electric bicycle 
increases. However, it is striking the older 
respondents use their car to travel to 
friends. 

3) Traveling to shops
Both car and bicycle are frequently used 
modes of transport to cover the distance 
to shops. The car seems to be a common 
mode of transport to move larger 
amount of (supermarket) bags, however 
results show the bicycle is also frequently 
used. Comparing the age differences, 

the use of public transport seems to 
decrease where the use of the electric 
bicycle increases. The electric bicycle 
is becoming increasingly popular in the 
Netherlands. In 2015, nearly 1 million 
bicycles were sold of which one out of 
four was an e-bicycles (CBS, 2016). On 
a national level, CBS (2016) state more 
than a tenth of all cycling kilometers are 
covers on an e-bicycle. However, this 
does not come forward in this research. 

4) Traveling to culture
Striking is the relatively high use of 
public transport (bus and train) when 
undertaking a cultural activity compared 

to the other activities. As the city of 
Eindhoven offers much more cultural 
activities than Waalre (musea, cinema, 
festivals, etc.) this is in expected result. 
The nearest cinema is 5,3 kilometers 
away from the center of Waalre, a 
distance people are not likely to cycle 
(van der Blij, Veger, & Siebos, 2010). 
Again, the older one becomes the more 
the car is used. 

5) Traveling to school
Only when traveling to school, the 
bicycle outweighs the car. The majority 
of youngest respondents (15 – 24 years 
old) are traveling to school with public 
transport. This is in line with Chakrabarti 

(2017), who states public transport users 
are younger on average than users of 
other modes of transport. Students in 
the Netherlands often have a student 
pass for public transport, which they use 
half over the time for their study. Half 
of the youngest respondents covers this 
trip by public transport, and about one 
third covers the trip by bicycle. The next 
age category (25 – 44 years old) contains 
students who continue their education 
at MBO, HBO or university. In this age 
category we see a major decrease of 
the use of public transport. According to 
CBS (2017), 32 % of the residents of the 
municipality of Waalre between 18 and 
30 years old own a car. 

Travel time to friends (all respondents)

Travel time to culture (all respondents)

Travel time to shops (all respondents)

- 20 -

Travel time to school (all respondents)

- 21 -

Activities & travel time
The graph shows average travel time to 
various activities. It can be concluded 
that basic activities like going to the 
supermarket are preferable as short as 
possible, up to 15 minutes. Travel to 
friends, on the contrary, is where the 
respondents take their time for. More 
than half of the respondents indicate 
they travel more than 60 minutes to visit 
friends. Commuting accounts for most 
of the distance travelled, while social 
and leisure activities take up most of the 
travel time. 

Importance for choosing most used mode of 
transport (all respondents)

Flexibility & age groups (all respondents)

4.3 Travel reasons

According to Dell`Ollio et al. (2011) and 
Beirão et al. (2007) travel time, costs and 
comfort are the most important aspects 
of transport choice. Both state that safety 
and flexibility are to a lesser important 
for ones choice of transport. For the 
following chapter, the following indicators 
can be categorized: 1. Costs, 2. Safety, 3. 
Flexibility, 4. Travel time, 5. Working during 
travel time, 6. Relaxation during travel, 7. 
Comfort, 8. Sustainability. 

4.3.1  Indicators for travel reasons

More than two-third of the respondents 
indicate flexibility is the most important 
reason for choosing their most used mode 
of transport. This is in contradiction with 
literature (Dell’Ollio et al, 2011; Beirão et 
al., 2007) which states travel time, costs 
and comfort are main reasons and not 
flexibility. Further, respondents indicate 
the second important reason is travel 
time, followed up by comfort. Working 
during travel seems not to be important 
at all. 

Travel time
Travel time is considered as most 
important factor among the respondents 
between 25 and 64 years old. It is 
plausible this age category consist 
mostly out of respondents who have 
more turbulent lives (e.a. work, children) 
compared to the youngsters and the 
retired group. Therefore, travel time is of 
major influence. 

Average travel time (all respondents)

Travel time & age groups (all respondents) 

- 22 -

- 23 -

Flexibility & age groups (all respondents)

Travel time & age groups (all respondents) 

Travel costs
Regarding travel costs, the older 
age category (65+ years old) attach 
considerable more value to costs, 
as almost more than one-third of 
these group indicates this is ‘the most 
important reason’. Meanwhile, a quarter 
of the youngest age group (15-24 years 
old) consider travel costs as the least 
important factor for choosing their most 
used transport mode.

Comfort
Furthermore, also comfort becomes 
more important when respondents 
become older. The age category that 
values comfort the most is the oldest 
age category (65 + years old), with 
almost one third of the respondents 
stating this is the most important reason 
for choosing their most used mode of 
transport. Comfort is least important to 
the youngest age category (15-24 years 
old).

4.3.2  Motives for travel modes 

The top three modes of transport in this 
research are the car, the (electric) bicycle 
and the bus. In an open question, we 
asked respondents why they use this 
specific mode of transport the most. 

Car
Respondents indicating they use the 
car most (45 %, 658 respondents) gave 
various reasons for choosing this mode 
of transport above other, ranging from 
work related issues (“I’m an account 
manager and have to travel a lot to 
visit customers”) to independence (“it 
provides most freedom, I work very 
irregularly”). The four most frequent 

mentioned reasons are travel time, ease 
of having the car in front of the door, 
the absence of having a full-fledged 
alternative mode of transport, and the 
distance of the destination. 

The (electric) bicycle
Respondents who cycle most, normal and 
electric bicycle (23 %, 344 respondents), 
place health reasons on top of reasons 
why they cycle most. One respondent 
answered: “It is good for body and soul”. 
Next to this, travel time and easy are 
frequently mentioned. However the 
bicycle might be more flexible than the 
car (park everywhere, no gas needed), 
respondents who indicate they value 
flexibility as highly important still chose 
the car over the bicycle. 

Bus
Respondents who indicate they 
most frequently use the bus (4 %, 62 
respondents) answer they use this mode 
of transport because they travel for free, 
probably because of the government 
sponsoring public transport cards. It 
is striking that almost a quarter of the 
respondents states they use the bus 
because “Today the day it is my only 
opportunity”. None of the respondents 
answered they take the bus because of 
sustainability reasons.

- 24 -

- 25 -

4.4 Public transport

Public transport plays an important social 
role to ensure that all members of society 
are able to travel, including groups such 
as the young, the old, the poor and 
those with medical conditions. Public 
transportation creates locations of social 
encounters that mixes the social, ethnic 
and other types of affiliation. Moreover, 
public transport is regarded as significantly 
more energy efficient than other forms 
of travel (Beirão & Cabral, 2007), and it 
utilizes urban space more efficiently than 
a car does.  
 
Subcription
More than half of the respondents 
indicate they have a subscription on a 
mode of (public) transport (bus, train, 
shared car, shared bicycle). However, 
during the interviews it became clear that 
the definition of subscription was different 
for various people. Various people indicate 
they have a subscription by stating they 
have a public transport card. However, 
the public transport card itself is not a 
subscription as there are no periodic 
costs. This has to be taken in consideration 
when interpreting the results. Comparing 
the two districts, almost 10 % more 
respondents in Aalst indicate they have a 
subscription. 

4.4.1 Bus and train

About 13 % of the respondents travels 
with public transport during a regular 
week (1125 out of 8800 trips made). Out 
of these respondents, more than one 
third of the users are of the youngest 
age category (15-24 years). Retired 
respondents use public transport the 
least with 15 %. When specified per 
employment status, more than half of 
the respondents that use public transport 
during a regular week are considered 
students. A quarter of the respondents is 
seeking jobs and only 10 % of the working 
class (full-time and part-time) uses public 
transport. 

Goal of public transport use
Public transport (both bus and train) is 
mostly used when traveling to cultural 
activities, with takes up about one third 
up to half of all the respondents. Traveling 
to friends is second destination to travel 
to with public transport. A considerably 
smaller percentage travels with public 
transport to reach work and school. Public 
transport is used least when traveling 
to shops. As the largest group of public 
transport users is considered to be a 
student, this is a striking result. The result 
indicates they don’t use public transport 
to reach school, but mainly to travel to 
cultural activities and visit friends. 

Travel time to work
Out of the respondents indicating they 
use public transport to travel to work 
(9 %, 163 respondents), respondents 
from the Aalst-district that use public 
transport to reach work cover the longest 
travel time with more than half of the 
respondents indicating they travel more 
than 60 minutes to work. Interesting is 

Distribution of age groups using public transport 
during a regular week (1125 respondents)

Subscription on mode of transport (all respondents)

Distribution of groups based on employment 
status using public transport during a regular 
week (1125 respondents)

Inner ring: Bus
Outer ring: Train

Distribution of goals of public transport use. 
(1125 respondents)

- 26 -

- 27 -

Waalre, where there is a relatively large 
group of respondents who travel 15 up to 
30 minutes to work ánd a relatively large 
group of respondents who travel up to 60 
minutes to work. 

Travel time to work in Eindhoven
Keeping in mind that not even 10 % of 
the respondents works in the direct 
environment (Waalre, Veldhoven, 
Valkenswaard) and more than a quarter of 
the respondents works in Eindhoven (393 
respondents), different means of travel to 
Eindhoven (bicycle, car, public transport) 
are plotted against travel time. It stands 
out that the fastest way of traveling to 
Eindhoven is the bicycle. More than 
25 % of the users of the bicycle reach 
Eindhoven within 15 minutes, where 
only 10 % of the public transport users 
reaches Eindhoven within 15 minutes. 
More than half of the respondents 
indicate their travel time to Eindhoven is 
between 15 and 30 minutes, independent 
they use bicycle, car or public transport. 
Furthermore, the percentage of 
respondents who travel with public 
transport and reach Eindhoven in more 
than 60 minutes stands out. 

The importance of elements that are accompa-
nied with a public transport trip (all respondents).

Inner ring: Eindhoven
Outer ring: Other

Travel to work Eindhoven - other

The evaluation of elements that are accompanied 
with a public transport trip (all respondents).

4.4.2  Experience of Public 
Transport

The respondents are asked to assess the 
importance of various aspects that have 
influence on their experience of a public 
transport trip, valuating these aspects 
from not important to very important. 
The aspects are costs, traffic safety, 
social security, frequency, punctuality, 
accessibility of public transport stop, 
working during travel, comfort and 
sustainability. Three aspects stand out, as 
almost half of the respondents indicate 
frequency, punctuality and accessibility 
are the most important aspects that have 
influence on their experience of a public 
transport trip. 

Furthermore, respondents are asked how 
they currently value those various aspects 
that have influence on their experience 
of a public transport trip. The three most 
important aspects as mentioned above, 
frequency, punctuality and accessibility, 
are rated considerably negative to neutral. 
The most negative valued aspect is the 
cost of public transport. Half of the 
respondents indicate public transport 
tickets are too expensive, although 
respondents do not value this as highly 
important for their experience of a public 
transport trip. Only a quarter of the 
respondents indicates they rate comfort 
as positive during their trip. Two aspects 
are rated (very) positive: traffic safety and 
social safety. Almost three quarter of the 
respondents value traffic safety as (very) 
positive, and half of the respondents rate 
social safety as (very) positive.

Travel time to work in Eindhoven by transport 
mode (379 respondents)

The evaluation of elements that are accompanied 
with a public transport trip (all respondents).

- 28 -

- 29 -

Inner ring: How 
they reach it today 
Outer ring:  How they wish 
to reach it in the future
Distribution of how respondents (want to) reach a 
public transport stop. (987 respondents)

Comfort during a public transport trip can 
disaggregated into five elements: bustle 
in the bus, availability of seating, waiting 
time, switching time, indoor climate. 
Respondents are asked how important 
these elements are for their experience of 
comfort. For every single element, more 
than half of the respondents indicate 
they value this as a (very) important 
element for their experience of comfort. 
The availability of seating and short 
waiting times are considered essential, 
with more than 75 % of the respondents 
valuating this as important. Still of major 
importance, but the least in this category, 
are bustle in the bus and the indoor 
climate.

Other aspects of relevance for a 
comfortable public transport trip 
mentioned range from information 
provision (“I would like more reliable, 
actual information about travel 
possibilities”), better wheelchair and baby 
car accessibility, more quiet spaces in 
trains and busses, and cleaner sanitary (“I 
think trains are cleaned poorly. Sometimes 
the toilets are plain dirty.”). 

4.4.3  First & Last Mile

The use of public transport is strongly 
determined by the quality of its first and 
last mile. How far people are prepared 
to walk to certain public transport stops 
is indicated as the area of influence of a 
public transport stop (van der Blij, Veger, 
& Siebos, 2010). The area of influence is 
becoming larger when its public transport 
is faster, the frequency higher and the 
travel is longer in distance.

case study bus top Den Hof, Aalst

With the future HOV stop in Aalst in mind, 
a small case study is done on the first and 
last mile towards this future HOV stop. 
The dot on the map is the location of the 
future bus stop. The area of influences 
by different means of transportation are 
presented on the next pages.

The size of a public transport network has 
been determined by a walking distance up 
to 400 meters to a public transport stop 
(van der Blij, Veger, & Siebos, 2010). The 
dot on the map is the current bus stop 
‘Den Hof’. The area of influence does not 
reach very far into the municipality.

Today, almost three quarter of the 
respondents walk to a public transport 
stop which is within a proper distance, and 
even more respondents (82 %) would like 
to walk to a public transport stop in the 
future.  

When transforming the current bus stop 
into a HOV stop, research shows the 
area of influence doubles. Travelers are 
prepared to walk about 800m towards this 
high-quality public transport stop. When 
cycling towards to HOV stop, the area of 
influence becomes about 2350 meters. 
As people cover 1,5 times more distance 
with an e-bicycle than with a regular 
bicycle (CBS, 2016), this area of influence 
becomes even 3525m, covering almost 
the full municipality of Waalre.

Aalst

Waalre

- 30 -

- 31 -

Location of bus stop Den Hof in Aalst. source: google maps, edited by the authors

Aalst

Aalst

Waalre

Waalre

Area of influence the regular OV stop when walking (400 meters)
source: google maps, edited by the authors

Area of influence of the HOV stop when cycling to the stop (2350 meters)
source: google maps, edited by the authors

Aalst

Aalst

Waalre

Waalre

Area of influence of the HOV stop when walking to the stop (800 meters)
source: google maps, edited by the authors

- 32 -

Area of influence of the HOV stop when using an electric bicycle to reach the stop (3525 meters)
source: google maps, edited by the authors

- 33 -

Facilities at public transport stop
Supervised bicycle parking is by far the 
most preferred future facility at the 
public transport stop with 39 % of the 
respondents answered they would like 
to have this facility in the future. At this 
moment, public transport stops in Aalst 
and Waalre do not offer any supervised 
bicycle parking. The supervised bicycle 
parkings mentioned are most likely the 
ones in the city of Eindhoven. Remarkable 
is that most respondents prefer to walk 
to a public transport stop, but also prefer 
a supervised bicycle parking. Could it be 
possible to get the car users out of the 
car when a supervised bicycle parking is 
provided at the public transport stop?

Safety of public transport stop
Only a small part of public transport users 
is feeling unsafe on their way to the public 
transport stop and at the public transport 
stop, of which most users feeling unsafe 
are women. Multiple respondents indicate 
they feel less safe in the evening (“I feel 
safe by day and unsafe by night”). A 
significant higher amount of respondents 
from Aalst feels unsafe (15 %) compared 
to respondents from Waalre (6 %). “I have 
to cross the main road where I have to 
wait very long for the traffic light. It’s safe 
but people drive fast”, one respondent 
from Aalst said. More specific reasons 
were mentioned, like the Bergstraat in 
Waalre: “During rush hour, cars even drive 
at the wrong side of the road!”.  

Inner ring: Current facilities
Outer ring: desired  facilities

(Desired) Facilities at the public transport stop. 

Safety of public transport stop (all respondents)

Inner ring: Waalre
Outer ring: Aalst

Distribution of how respondents desire to travel 
further from their last public transport stop to their 
final destination (1182 respondents)

Last Mile
The last mile is mainly done on foot (76 
%). As about a quarter of the respondents 
works in Eindhoven, it could be interesting 
to attract users to public transport by 
providing (shared) bicycles along public 
transport routes. Not only facilities 
near the first public transport stop are 
of importance, also the ones beyond 
the border of the municipality that 
cover the last mile have to be taking in 
consideration. Shared bicycles (OV-fiets) 
are for example only provided at the train 
station of Eindhoven, whereas the city of 
Utrecht offers four places to rent a shared 
bicycle. The research does not show 
where in Eindhoven the respondents 
work, but it is plausible that a part of the 
respondents works at places like the High 
Tech Campus. These commuters could 
benefit from a shared bicycle system near 
a bus stop halfway the HOV- route to cycle 
to the campus, instead of traveling to the 
train station of Eindhoven first in order to 
travel further. Offering supervised bicycle 
parking at bus stops along the route could 
also motivate commuters to park their 
regular bicycle near their bus stop and 
travel further. 

- 34 -

- 35 -

4.5 Scenario’s

The future high-quality public transport 
service (HOV) offers opportunities to use 
or develop new (ICT) technologies, and 
to stimulate the development of new 
programs around the mobility node. In 
order to get the respondents acquainted 
with future possibilities, we offered these 
prospective users six future scenario’s that 
are related to future travel. Per scenario 
they could choose their preferred way 
of travel. This part of the survey was not 
obligatory. However, more than 1000 
respondents answered every question 
related to scenarios.

Scenario: Travel time
The respondents could choose between 
the following options regarding travel 
time:

• 
  
• 
  
  
• 
  
• 
  
  

Car: 20 minutes slower because of 
 the increase of traffic.
Shared car: 10 minutes faster  
because shared cars are allowed  
on bus lanes.
Bus: Same travel time as current  
situation.
Electric bicycle: 10 minutes  
faster because of better  
technology and infrastructure. 

The result shows travel time has major 
influence on transportation choice. Where 
earlier results show the respondents are 
mostly attached to their car, this result 
shows the respondents are inclined to 
leave their car for a faster mode of travel 
(electric bicycle, in this scenario). Despite 
the shorter travel time of the shared car 
than the normal car, this option is not 
preferred. Respondents prefer to share a 
bus instead of a car.

- 36 -

Distribution of scenario ‘travel time’
 (1154 respondents)

- 37 -

Scenario: Accessibility 
In this scenario the respondents could 
choose between the following options 
regarding accessibility:
• 
 
• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 

Car: Less relaxed driving because 
of increase of traffic.
Bus: More convenient to reach 
because of new transport nodes 
and infrastructure.
Self-driving car: More efficient 
because one can work in the car.
Shared car: Comfort of a regular 
car without buying one yourself. 

The result illustrates that accessibility is 
more important than relaxation, efficiency 
and comfort as almost half of the 
respondents replied they would prefer the 
more convenient and reachable bus in this 
scenario. 

Scenario: Parking 
The scenario of parking includes the next 
future options:
• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
• 
 

Car: Search 10 minutes for parking 
and walk 10 minutes to your 
destination. 
Electric car: Free parking and walk 
10 minutes to your destination.
Electric bicycle: free parking at 
your destination.
Electric bus: walk 10 minutes to 
your destination.

In this scenario, the only way to park you 
transport mode next to your location 
is when one travels with the electric 
bicycle. The results show that parking 
close or next to your location is seen as an 
important factor. However, the electric bus 
with a ten minutes’ walk is also a more 
popular choice in this scenario. 

Distribution of scenario ‘accessibility’
(1153 respondents)

Distribution of scenario ‘public transport stop’ 
(1117 respondents)

Distribution of scenario ‘parking’
(1154 respondents)

Distribution of scenario ‘sustainability’ 
(1154 respondents)

Scenario: Public transport stop
The respondents could choose between 
different options regarding traveling to 
public transport stop:

• 
• 
 
• 
 
• 
 
 

Car: No parking available. 
Bicycle: Supervised bicycle parking 
available.
Electric car: Special parking 
available.
Shared Segway: Available 
everywhere to transport you to the 
public transport stop.

The result shows that the car is less 
preferable if there is no parking available. 
Many respondents prefer the bicycle 
in this scenario. Remarkable is the 
percentage that prefer to use the shared 
Segway in this scenario. 

Scenario: Sustainability
This scenario will give an indication of 
respondents that leave the car if there 
are different sustainable transport modes 
in the future. This will be encouraged 
by increase of the price of fuel in this 
scenario. The respondents could choose 
between the following scenarios:

• 
• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
 

Car: Price of fuel increase with 5%.
Electric car: More sustainable than 
the ‘normal’ car, equally in comfort 
but more expensive in purchase. 
Electric bus: Even more sustainable 
and cheaper than the electric car.
Bicycle: Slower and less 
comfortable than other option but 
energy neutral. 

The answers on this scenario are really 
different. 12 % of the respondents on this 
scenario still wants to use the car.

- 38 -

- 39 -

5. Waalre key learnings and
   recommendations

Travel behaviour
Independent of the activity the 
respondents are going to undertake, 
the car is with more than 50 % the 
most chosen most of transport to 
cover any distance. Typically Dutch, 
the bicycle represents about 30 % of 
all trips made, especially the trips of 
which the destination is reached within 
15 minutes. Striking is the rise of the 
electric bicycle among older people, 
which seems to be an ongoing trend 
for the upcoming years (Univé & GfK, 
2016). Less than 10 % of all distances 
made to reach any activity is covered 
by public transport. The only form of 
activity where we observe a slight rise 
of the use of public transport is when 
respondents travel to reach cultural 
activities, of which predominantly the 
younger age group (15 – 24 years old) 
makes use of the bus. Education or 
gender seems not to be of influence on 
the transportation choice. Regarding 
travel time, respondents are willing to 
travel more than 60 minutes to visit 
friends, but only 15 minutes to do their 
groceries. 
 
Travel choices
Flexibility, travel time and comfort are 
the three most important aspects for 
respondents to choose their mode 
of transport. Less important seems 
to be travel costs, safety, relaxation 
during travel, working during travel and 
sustainability. The reasons for choosing 

a specific mode of transport range 
from health reasons to having no other 
full-fledged options.
 
Public transport
More than 10 % of all trips made 
during a week is made by public 
transport. The youngest age category 
(15 – 24 years old) uses public 
transport to cover distances the most. 
Striking is the result that the city of 
Eindhoven is faster to reach by bicycle 
than with public transport. More than 
25 % of the respondents who cycle 
reach the city of Eindhoven within 
15 minutes, where only 10 % of the 
respondents who use public transport 
reaches Eindhoven within these 15 
minutes. 

Frequency, punctuality and accessibility 
are considered to be the three most 
important aspects for the respondents’ 
experience of public transport. Where 
frequency and punctuality are relatively 
positive valued, accessibility could be 
improved according the respondents. 
Social safety, traffic safety and comfort 
are the three most positively valued 
aspects of a public transport trip. 
Although costs is not considered to be 
of importance for a public transport 
trip, traveling by public transport is 
valued as expensive. The use of public 
transport is strongly determined by 
the quality of its first and last mile. 
With the future HOV stop at the 

- 40 -

- 41 -

Eindhovenseweg in Aalst in mind, its 
area of influence ranges from a small 
part of the neighbourhood when 
people walk to the stop, to covering 
the whole municipality when people 
use an electric bicycle to reach the 
stop. Moreover, facilities offered at the 
starting public transport stop as well 
as the ending public transport stop are 
of major importance. Almost half the 
respondents desires supervised bicycle 
parking near public transport stops in 
the future.
 
Scenarios
The presented scenarios, although 
suggestive, show there is an actual 
turning point where respondents 
are inclined to choose other means 
of transport over the car. Future 
changes in mobility are inevitable, 
and respondents are willing to assess 
every situation again when parameters 
change. 

Recommendations for the future HOV 
stop at Den Hof in Aalst

However more research should be 
done on the influence of a future HOV 
stop at the Eindhovenseweg in Aalst, 
the following recommendations could 
be made for future (high quality) public 
transport stops based on this research:

1. Provide a guarded bicycle parking 
at the public transport stop. These 
guided bicycles parkings could provide 
social workspaces, where the work can 
be carried out by people long-term 

unemployed or people with a work 
disability. 

2. Having multiple facilities at both the 
starting and ending public transport 
stop are of major importance for the 
attractiveness of a public transport 
stop. For example, the guarded bicycle 
parking as mentioned above could be 
extended to a bicycle repair shop. As 
people spend as least time as possible 
on traveling to the supermarket, a 
pick-up point for the local supermarket 
could be provided in order to combine 
activities (traveling and shopping). A 
coffee bar could serve that one cup of 
hot coffee near the stop when waiting 
on the bus, or a small café could be the 
place where you meet a friend who 
visits you by using public transport.

3. Place shared bicycle along to the 
public transport route. The research 
shows that more than a quarter of 
the respondents works in the city of 
Eindhoven. As the only shared bicycles 
can be found at the train station of 
Eindhoven, respondents have no other 
option than to walk whenever they 
exit public transport along the route. 
Shared bicycles along this route could 
lower the threshold for workers to 
use public transport, where they have 
a convenient and flexible mode of 
transport to travel further when they 
get off the bus earlier than the train 
station. 

- 42 -

- 43 -

6. Comments of respondents

Multiple respondents have commented 
on the content of the survey. One of 
the most frequent recurring comments 
was that the research would be too 
focused on the development of a 
single HOV-line, whereas various local 
bus lines, the ones that connected 
the residential areas, have been lifted 
in recent years.  The survey would 
also focus too much on the bus as a 
mode of public transport, and less on 
the train as mode of public transport. 
As the municipality of Waalre only 
provides a bus connection, the train 
is considered as less important in this 
survey. 

Most of the criticism was expressed on 
the scenarios in the survey. Our aim 
was to do research on how methods 
of transport other than the car could 
be improved, and when respondents 
would be inclined to get out of their 

cars. In practice, the respondents were 
found to be steering the questions, and 
they were prevented from making a 
free choice. 

As final criticism respondents 
commented the research did not ask 
enough about the times people use 
transport. Currently, most busses run 
during the day, which is useful for 
commuters and students. However, 
there is a growing demand for bus 
transport later in the evening, when 
people travel to visit the theatre, the 
cinema, or undertake other cultural 
activities. Our research shows a 
significant percentage of respondents 
travels to cultural activities with public 
transport. Providing busses until late in 
the evening connecting the larger city 
cores of Eindhoven and Valkenswaard 
with Aalst and Waalre is a frequently 
mentioned suggestion.

- 44 -

- 45 -

7.  References

Beirão, G., & Cabral, J. (2007). Understanding attitudes towards public transport and 
private car: A qualitative study. Transport Policy, 14(6), 478-489.

CBS. (2016). Transport and Mobility. The Hague: Statistics Netherlands.

CBS. (2017). Gemiddeld inkomen; personen in particuliere huishoudens naar kenmerken. 
Opgehaald van CBS Statline: http://statline.cbs.nl/Statweb/publication/?VW=T&D
M=SLNL&PA=70957ned&D1=1-2&D2=a&D3=0&D4=0&D5=0&D6=a&HD=160403-
1355&HDR=G5,G3,G4,G2,T&STB=G1

CBS. (2017). Gemiddelde WOZ waarde woningen per gemeente. Opgehaald van CBS: 
https://www.cbs.nl/nl-nl/achtergrond/2017/45/gemiddelde-woz-waarde-woningen-per-
gemeente

CBS. (2017). Geografische Data. Opgehaald van Centraal Bureau voor Statistiek: https://
www.cbs.nl/nl-nl/dossier/nederland-regionaal/geografische-data

CBS. (2017). Trend in the Netherlands. The Hague: Statistics Nederlands.

Gemeente Waalre. (2017, 03 02). Historie. Opgehaald van Waalre.nl: https://www.
waalre.nl/ontdek-waalre/historie.html
Goudappel Coffeng. (2014). ProjectMER nieuwe verbinding Grenscorridor N69. 
Eindhoven: Goudappel Coffeng.

Nillson, M., & Küller, R. (2000). Travel behaviour and environmental concern. 
Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment, 5(3), 211-234.

NLO. (2011). Eindhoven region the smartest in the world. Opgehaald van NLO: https://
www.nlo.eu/en/news/news/119/Eindhoven-region-the-smartest-in-the-world

Oevering, F., Velleman, J., Smeltink-Mensen, A., & Weiss, R. (2017). Metropool Regio 
Eindhoven, koopstromenonderzoek in de MRE - Gemeente Waalre. The Hague/Heerlen: 

Provincie Noord Brabant, Rabobank, De Nieuwe Winkelstraat, Ik Onderneem!, AnalyZus.

Provincie Noord-Brabant. (2018). Totaaloplossing. Opgehaald van Grenscorridor N69: 
http://www.grenscorridorn69.nl/project/totaaloplossing

CBSinuwbuurt.nl (2017). CBS in uw buurt. Opgehaald van CBSinuwbuurt: http://www.
cbsinuwbuurt.nl/#gemeenten2016

Schwanen, T., Dieleman, F., & Dijst, M. (2001). Travel behaviour in Dutch monocentric 
and policentric urban systems. Journal of Transport Geography, 9(3), 173-186.

Chakrabarti, S. (2017). How can public transit get people out of their cars? An analysis of 
transirt mode choice for commute trips in Los Angeles. Transport Policy, 54, 80-89.

Univé, & GfK. (2016). Elektrische fietsen - Univé consumenten monitor. Amstelveen: 
Gesellschaft für Konsumforschung.

Clery, E., & Rhead, R. (2013). Education and Attitudes towards the Environment 2013/4. 
Education for All Global Monitoring Report.

van der Blij, F., Veger, J., & Siebos, C. (2010). HOV op loopopstand - het invloedgebied van 
HOV-haltes. Vervoersplanologisch Speurwerk. Roermond.

Creemers, L., Wets, G., & Cools, M. (2015). Meteorological variation in daily travel 
behaviour: evidence from revealed preference data from the Netherlands. Theoretical 
and Applied Climatology, 120(1-2), 183-194.

Dell’Olio, L., Ibeas, A., & Cecin, P. (2011). The quality of service desired by public 
transport users. Transport Policy, 18(1), 217-227.

Duurzaam door Waalre. (2018). Het project. Opgehaald van Duurzaam door Waalre: 
https://www.duurzaamdoorwaalre.nl/

Van Lanschot Bankiers. (2017). Vermogend Nederland. ‘s-Hertogenbosch: Van Lanschot 
Bankiers.

Viti, F., Tampère, C., Frederix, R., Castaigne, M., Cornelis, E., & Wallre, F. (2010). 
Analyzing weekly activity–travel behavior from behavioral survey and traffic data. World 
Conference on Transport Research. Lisbon.

- 46 -

- 47 -

Appendix: survey

- 48 -

- 49 -

- 50 -

- 51 -

- 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

- 55 -

- 56 -

- 57 -

- 58 -

Waalre Future Connections

improving liveability and mobility

